When we enter into intimate relationships,
we often leave ourselves behind in the process.
Seeking approval and looking for
non-conflicted companionship,
we begin to morph into a creature that we hope
the other person will love or like.
Our personal sovereignty and individual uniqueness
circles the drain and we often become a shell of ourselves.
This is more often true for women than for men,
still, most of us succumb to one extent or other.
Christine Arylo addresses this phenomenon in her book,
"Choosing Me Before We."
Whether you are in an intimate relationship or
have chosen to go it alone,
Christine encourages everyone to have
a love affair with yourself.
Christine, you did something really bold
as a very young woman and I wanted to talk about that
because I actually have--
I know a lot of people that took a lot of courage
over a lot of time to do this and
usually not til they were older.
You changed your last name,
not your first name,
well I don't know about your first name--
(laughing)
You changed your last name at the age of 18,
because you felt that you needed your own identity.
Can you tell us about that?
There was just always something about my name
that never quite fit.
Every time I would say it out loud,
and at the time, everyone called me "Chris,"
so it wasn't "Christine," it was "Chris" and
I won't even say my former last name
because even when I say it vibrationally,
it doesn't feel right.
So, when I was 18, I just decided I am going
to stop using my middle name,
which was "Anne" at the time.
It freaked my mother out.
She's like,
"How could you not use that name?
"That's my middle name."
I said, you know, there's just some name out there
that fits me better and I wasn't quite ready
to get rid of the last name yet.
I thought that someday I would go to Africa
and I would meet a Shaman and
he would bestow a name on me,
or I would open up some tome and
there would be the name,
and of course,
that's never how it happens on our spiritual journey.
It's always a lot more simple than that.
Actually, I had moved to San Francisco and
was living there for about six months.
I needed a cup of sugar,
I was baking cookies or something.
I go next door to my neighbor's house,
knock on the door and said,
"Do you have some sugar?"
And she goes, "Oh, sure, come on in."
And this was really the beginning of my awakening,
my spiritual awakening.
Maybe I was a year or two in.
And, there's this little boy standing there
and his mom and I'm like,
"Oh, who are these people?"
And the mom introduces herself to me
and I don't even remember her name.
And, the little boy, who was all of eight years old,
sticks his hand out and says to me,
"Hi, my name is Arylo."
And all of a sudden, it's like lights went off,
my whole body vibrated and I just was like,
"Where did that come from?
"How did you get that?"
and the poor kid was like, whoa.
(laughing)
I felt like a police officer inquiring this but
it was like, it was that knowing.
In that moment, it rang through every cell in my being
and I knew that that was my name.
So, I went home, right next door,
and I had been writing a poem.
I hadn't even written my first book yet
and I had been writing a poem and
I changed the name on my poem to
Christine Arylo
and that became my painting name and my writing name.
I wasn't published yet or anything.
I just started being with that for a while.
A couple years later, I decided to get married.
I knew that I didn't want to take my husband's last name.
That was a given.
But I didn't want my last name either,
because it didn't fit.
Every time I said it,
it was like marbles coming out of my mouth.
So, I decided to change my last name to Arylo
and it was a bigger deal than I thought.
Yes, because everything changes around you.
When you change your identity vibrationally,
you could go to a soul-vibrational level.
That's one thing.
You obviously were listening to a very deep calling
in yourself, another part of you was speaking.
However, families don't necessarily want to see it that way.
No, they're very attached to it.
As my mom calls it, she's the "Traditionalist,"
so they didn't get it.
I mean, I grew up in Chicago, so the whole notion
that you could go to California--
You know, first of all, everyone thought
I was a little nutty for moving to California and
quitting my job and doing that whole thing,
but now, all of a sudden I've changed my name
and I'm getting married but I'm having
a cosmic soul-commitment celebration
versus a marriage,
so they're all sort of befuddled and confused.
And, I had to stop trying to explain it to them,
because my mother would send me letters
to "Chris Martin," because Martin is my husband's last name
and I don't even know.
"Chris" is what they used to call me and
I would say,
"Mother, who is Chris Martin?
"I don't know who this person is.
"My name is Christine Arylo."
And it took her three years to finally stop being--
To honor that.
Yeah.
And it was like, when I got it,
it was just so beautiful to receive that,
but the "why" and the "how,"
I just couldn't explain that to her
because she wasn't in that kind of place herself.
But, what was really kind of shocking to me was,
I got married, in the process of changing my last name,
on the way to Bali for a honeymoon.
I started freaking out, because when I was coming
back from Bali, that's when I was going to have
the court date to have my name changed.
And I was like, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
I called my spiritual teacher, Pele and I said,
"Pele, I don't know.
"This is kind of feeling bigger, I don't know.
"It feels like I'm stepping into something."
And she said--
She's so funny, she calls me "Grasshopper,"
She said,
"Grasshopper, just go to Bali and have a good time.
"And when you get back, all will be revealed."
And of course, it was and I went to the courthouse
and this is funny--
the judge gets up and they pronounce your name
and she said,
"You are now Christine Ar- illo."
And I look at the judge and I'm like,
do you tell the judge that she's mispronounced your name?
I have this whole conversation with my inner guidance and
I'm like, no, you know who you are.
So, what did that do to you
on kind of a feeling empowerment personal level
once you changed your name?
It was like I stepped into who I really was.
This happened right around--
it was legally changed right around 33 to 34,
so that's your Jesus year,
when you're really becoming your Christ-self,
so I feel it was like I was anointed, really.
My first name, Christine, means
"anointed teacher,"
and Arylo, as much as I can understand it,
I've talked to linguists and stuff and
no one can quite pinpoint it,
but it gets "circle,"
is the closest that I've been able to come to.
So, it felt like I was becoming this
anointed teacher of the circle,
of connection, of wholeness.
It just really felt like I was stepping into that
and every time I would write and I would see that name,
it was like calling me into who I really was.
For the first time ever, when someone said my name
I didn't--
Flinch.
Yeah, flinch.
And it also helped me understand why I never
felt connected to my family lineage, my birth family.
I could never understand why I didn't feel like a Schneider.
That was the name.
I don't belong to this tribe, I don't belong to this clan.
I always felt that way.
It was when I got that last name that I finally felt
that connection to what I would call my cosmic family,
my soul family that I've since amassed,
my big family of love.
Yes, well, it's a beautiful story
and in some cultures, you do change your name
throughout the lifetime at different stages,
that honors what you have become and so,
you just took it upon yourself to do that
in a culture that doesn't honor that,
so congratulations.
Thank you.
That was a very empowering thing to do.
And the subject we're talking about, the book,
which can be very fun and girly and poppy
and it also has the same time has a lot of depth
and truth to it,
because it's about a search for your own truth,
the genuine connection with yourself which
most of us go through our entire lives and
manage to avoid.
So, with you, you had--
your father left at an early age.
You had a relationship that lasted about 15 years.
You'd had--
not left, your father died--
one come in and one go out.
But you had these schisms in your own being
that had not been worked out,
these dependencies.
Just give us a little bit of background on what happened.
Some people will relate to this.
Yeah.
So, because my father died when I was 15 and
that created what I call,
what I now understand is a "love crack."
So, Father dies and my heart,
opens, breaks,
because all of a sudden, my primary man is not in my life.
That opened up a fissure in my heart for what I call
"the fear of rejection" to come in.
It took up residence in my pure,
my pure heart and that put me into
a 15 year dark period,
when I was dating my ex-person
who turned out to be my fiance.
And, I had no idea that I had chosen that relationship
because I was afraid because of this fear of rejection
and also a fear of abandonment.
They had both kind of taken up residence in my heart.
I didn't know that's why I couldn't leave
this 13 year relationship.
I thought it was because I loved him and
was supposed to be with him.
I thought because that's what you do,
you work hard at a relationship.
And I was really strong.
I was really a strong, independent woman and
so the notion that fear would play any part
in my making a decision was totally
not even registered here.
You weren't recognizing it as fear.
No, I think if you had met me back then
and said, "Christine, you're afraid,"
I would have said I'm not afraid of anything.
I don't know that I could have even said the word "weak."
Or that being vulnerable was even an option for me
at that time.
I had created such walls, really, around my heart
to protect myself from ever having to feel
that kind of abandonment again.
My best friend was also murdered
a year after my father died,
so there were several traumas that kind of came
one right after the other.
Thankfully, the Universe ran me over with
a two-by-four Mack truck in the form of my fiance
breaking up with me,
on the way to our engagement party.
On the way to the engagement party?
On the way to the engagement party.
That's an awkward moment.
It is.
Did you go to the party?
I went to the party, yeah.
Did you tell everyone you'd just split up?
Oh, no.
I just pretended like everything was okay.
How awful.
Yeah.
Well, it was awful.
At the time, I was so--
On a social level--
I was in shock.
You know, like you get hit by a car and keep running.
It was kind of like that.
I look back at the pictures and I look stunning
and beautiful and you wouldn't know anything
was wrong only he wasn't in any of the pictures.
I even toasted us, my mother toasted us.
You were on auto-pilot program by then.
Oh yeah, I was on auto-pilot right up
the escalator to death, is what I call it.
Knowing that I wasn't living my true path,
and obviously the Universe had other plans for me
and so, fast-forward two weeks.
After crying my eyes out every day
to beg this man to take me back.
Here I was, strong independent woman,
getting my MBA,
marketing executive,
successful at all levels, outwardly very happy,
begging a man to take me back.
And a man that wasn't really serving
the "We" part very well for you.
Well, we weren't a "We."
We were stuck in each other's holes.
I was stuck in his holes,
he was stuck in mine and so when he got pulled out,
when he extricated himself out of those love cracks
that I had stuffed him into,
all of a sudden I was just this pain gushing out of me.
I had always thought when we'd broke up in the past
that the breakup,
that him not being in my heart,
was him missing in that pain.
What I realized that first night that I spent the night
by myself in my own bed for the first time in 15 years
was--
actually it was my intuition said to me,
"Christine, your heart hurts not because he's missing,
"your heart hurts because you're missing."
Right.
And I hadn't listened to her for a really long time.
So, she kept talking because she had more to say
and she said,
"You know, Christine, you've got a lot of self-esteem,
"You have a lot of self-confidence.
"That's not the same as self-love.
"You don't love yourself and
"you don't even know what that is."
I would dare to say that
most women in particular,
and most men, but it's a very different kind of
self-love or self-appreciation process
between men and women for the most part,
but most women really don't.
We don't--
And you don't know what that even feels like.
Not quite sure about that one.
Or what it even means.
What it means.
And you define it nicely, I think.
Thank you.
It's been a ten year journey.
That night, that same night,
I actually made a vow to myself.
The vow was--
two vows actually.
"I will fall in love with myself."
I had no frickin' clue what that means,
but I will do that and
two, I will never settle again for less than
my heart and soul desire.
And this is a big one.
This is a big one for all of humanity.
We don't actually, by the time we start making
our initial choices in life,
we're young, so we can cut ourselves some slack.
We don't have a lot of experience.
That's partially because we're not encouraged
to use our intuition from an early age.
If we were using our full Mind,
Mind with the big "M" and with the small "m,"
we would know very early on what we truly want
and what is not going to work well for us
and really cut this process down by a couple decades.
Well, the truth is that we are actually
born in love with ourselves and we are definitely
born connected to our intuition.
Those things are intact, right?
Those things are beaten out of you
through societal conditioning.
It is and you know why?
Because if we actually listened and
trusted our intuition,
which is one of the other vows that I really
recommend everyone takes is
"I trust myself."
If we actually did trust ourselves
and we acted on our intuition,
we wouldn't be controlled by anyone
or anything else.
So, our intuition and especially for women,
our intuition and that word,
"intuition" versus "gut."
A lot of times as women we're brought up
to believe okay, trust your gut,
but when you walk into a boardroom
and say "I trust my intuition,"
you're not necessarily going to do that.
And it's because our power as women,
and as men, does come from our intuition,
which, of course, is our connection to the divine.
If we just operated on that,
why would we have to listen to Wall Street?
Why would we have to listen to CNN?
Why would we have to listen to any educational,
any religious, any institution other than
our own heart and our own soul?
We wouldn't.
That has to be the first connection point,
what I call the first gate of self-love.
So, what happened for me ten years ago,
when I said I will fall in love with myself,
I have since passed through five gates of self-love
because every time I would get to a place where
I'm like, "Okay, I love myself,"
it would be like
"I really love myself this way
"and here's another place that needs love."
And that's the thing about falling in love with ourselves
and the word "self-love" is important.
That's not self-esteem, because love is
a different vibration.
Love's a different vibration than
esteem and confidence and acceptance.
Those are all parts of self-love,
but self-love is the whole.
I'm going to hop forward a little bit
in that calling it "self-love,"
a lot of times as soon as you say that,
people are so disconnected from self-love
that it's like, I don't even know how
to go about that journey.
Even people who say,
"Oh, I love myself," often just means
"No, I like certain things about myself
"that I do well."
That's maybe what that means.
You're talking about a much more
embracing vibration.
Might it--
is there another way to term that,
even though that is accurate?
Because I notice in the book,
when you're talking about loving ourselves,
you're actually breaking it down into
taking the earnest journey to know thyself,
warts and all and that honesty and acceptance
and accepting oneself.
Then, it goes into the more sublime parts
which is living fully with our truest innate
desires and passions.
So, I'm just saying, is there another way
to say it that people can be comfortable
with and not reject because they don't know
what it feels like in that term?
We know how to spend love and
put it onto others, right?
So, two answers to that.
No.
It's part of my job.
I know this is part of why I'm here,
why God woke me up and said,
"You will be Arylo and you go out there,"
is that we are in a transition in our planet
from fear to love,
that's where we're at.
It's like a war, like this whole science fiction thing.
Team Love, Team Fear.
Which team are you going to be on?
You know?
And there's something about claiming
the vibration of love.
We don't have a problem if I were to say
I really love you, right?
There's no one that's going to look at me
and go,
"She's selfish" because I'm loving you.
You're going to look at me and go,
"That's a good woman," right?
Turn that love around to myself,
why wouldn't we think the same thing?
It's the same thing.
It's the same vibration.
It's the same energy.
So, we are in the process of really
raising up our vibration as a planet
and as people so I know my job is actually
to make self-love as everyday as self-esteem
and to reclaim the definition of it and
leave behind these fear-based beliefs,
that it's narcissism, that it's selfish,
that it's vain, that it's conceited.
Spiritual teachers for thousands of years
including Buddha, Rumi, Jesus Christ all said,
Louise Hay, the grandmother of self-love,
Deepak Chopra, they all talk about this for
thousands--
well, not Deepak for thousands but well, maybe
if you count past lives--
(laughing)
but this is not new news to spiritual teachers.
They've always said this.
Yet the average person that
has yet to master it.
Bottom line, most people on the planet
have not mastered it yet.
I understand what you're saying.
By using the word love in that frequency
and sticking with it with your work,
that's a nice answer to that question.
Let's now go into come of the mechanics
when you don't have this in place.
When you haven't gone through the process
of really knowing yourself,
knowing your values,
knowing what's important to you,
is that we miss the mark in not insisting
on going for our dream.
I know very few women who are living their dream.
Very, very few.
This is written more for women which is
why I keep saying women although it's
applicable to men absolutely.
Oh, it's very applicable to men.
It's just different societal handcuffs that
are on the men.
There's many men walking around right now
who feel like they can't leave their jobs
to go after what they want.
I know very few men living their dream.
It's both ways and a big part is that we don't stop,
in this culture, to contemplate what our dream are.
So, our culture, the Western culture,
is very achievement based.
It's all based on what you do,
what you have.
That is the way that we define success
in our culture, and even those of us who
are more enlightened and on more of a spiritual path.
I've been on a spiritual path for ten years and
I have to tell you, I've done some major deprogramming
to get down to the core value of my self-worth.
Where does my self-worth come from?
Now, self-worth--
I think of self-love as a tree.
Self-love has all these branches.
There's self-acceptance,
self-honesty, self-confidence, self-esteem
and all the branches need to grow and
grow equally, or your tree will fall over, right?
So, if you have high self-esteem and
low self-compassion?
High achiever, super mean to yourself, right?
So, you have this tree.
The roots are your self-worth and you have to
fundamentally believe that you are worthy
no matter what's going on out there,
which is really hard because every single image--
not every single--
thank you for creating conscious, lovely positive media.
People like you are shifting the consciousness.
But, we see images every day and 92% of all images
go into our actual subconscious, not our consciousness.
So, even us enlightened people, right?
We have to be really conscious about what
we are inputting in.
93% of those are telling you that
you're not enough.
Everything.
You don't have enough, you're not enough.
You're not this.
So, we literally have to be reprogramming ourselves
to say "I am enough."
And with repetition.
Over and over.
I call them Love Mantras.
One Love Mantra that I love,
that I do every morning,
it's called the Self-Love Soak.
I close my eyes.
I'm like, sleep, sleep, sleep, sleep, sleep.
I wake up, open my eyes, close my eyes
and just say to myself,
"Christine, I love you."
And I'll say it over and over again.
"Christine, I love you, Christine, I love you."
Until I can feel the love soak into myself,
I will not get out of bed.
Very good.
And a lot of people will say, you know,
Stuart Smalley, Saturday Night Live.
Affirmations and all that,
but the reality you just touched on there
is that we are being programmed every day
with negative data and,
if you look at it that way,
the subconscious mind is, in a sense,
at least a portion of it, is a program.
So, we program it with this garbage
and then we do virtually nothing to
counterbalance that negative programming.
It seems that a lot of what
you are talking about in this book,
first of all, it's very much needed self-evaluation.
Honest, brutally honest, in a kind way,
self-evaluation but bolstered with this repetition
of message to self, and it makes total sense.
It's not a Saturday Night Live skit.
No, it's not.
I always like to say you are your own best friend.
You talk to your best friend all the time.
Why wouldn't you talk to yourself, you know?
There's also the way I like to think about why,
when your thoughts that are running through here,
create a vibration that create an emotional field
inside of your body.
The words you speak are also a vibration.
You bet.
Sound is vibration, right?
So, there's all kinds of studies that have been done,
including messages in water and how they--
there's so many studies so it's not just theoretical,
it really is scientifically proven.
So, just think about how you start your day
is how you live it.
It's like one simple thing you can do.
How you start your day is how you live your day.
So, if you start your day in love and loving yourself,
you're much more likely to be able to anchor into that
when you go out in that crazy fear-based world
to get back to love.
So, that's why I do that every morning.
I think it's a beautiful exercise and
it has to be there's a point at which it's almost absurd
and you start laughing.
Oh, yeah.
And then people say,
"I don't feel it. I'm not feeling it."
Fake it til you make it, baby.
Just fake it til you make it,
because that's the thing.
Self-love is a daring act.
You'd better believe that's daring in our culture.
If you look up "self-love" on dictionary.com,
the current definition is "conceit, vanity and narcissim."
Well that's the current perception of self-love.
We have to change.
Absolutely.
And you're right.
These are words that are heavily loaded
in a wonderful way with frequencies and
these frequencies are the counterbalance
to the fearful frequencies like we just talked
about a moment ago.
I just really wanted to put a yellow highlight
on this because I think it's a very important point.
Let's get into, you talk about relationships
in this a fair amount,
because oftentimes people will tend to
give themselves away in favor of having a "We."
They'll put the "Me" aside.
You were talking about filling holes in the relationship.
We tend to choose people who will fill holes.
But on the other hand,
you talk about like attracts like.
So, in a moment, if you just look at it quickly,
it would almost seem like a contradiction
but explain what you mean there.
Well, the way that I look at the equation is
Healthy Me plus Healthy He or She equals a Healthy We.
And if you're unhealthy, or you are holey--
and I don't mean "wholly" like w-h-o-,
I mean holey like full of holes--
kind of like Swiss cheese because you haven't done
your own healing work what we do is we put those people
into those holes, which is why you end up dating
the same person again and again.
Or you keep marrying the same person again and again.
So, for me, what happened to me ten years ago
when I had that break, I said
"Okay, I can keep doing what I've been doing,
"or I can stop and really look at myself."
And that's when I took the second,
really the third, vow of
"I will be honest with myself no matter what."
And, I have to tell you,
that was one of the hardest vows I ever had to stick to
and it's the vow again and again when people come to me
and say they're not happy in the relationship and
I ask them if they are absolutely being
100% honest with themselves,
they never say "yes."
That's right.
Because, it's almost as if,
when you name it,
that you now are irretrievably lost
or the relationship you're in is irretrievably over
if you name it and that's not necessarily so,
but the fear is loss.
The fear is--
If you look at the dark side.
The fear is, and it's not even the truth
that we're afraid of,
it's the consequences of admitting the truth, right?
And especially as a people who we think are enlightened
or we're this or we're strong,
if you have to admit that you have that fear
then there's all these other judgements.
I should be stronger.
I should know better.
I should be more spiritually enlightened than this.
Who says?
You know?
It takes a strong person to
look fear in the face and say,
"I see you and I'm going to walk through you anyway,
"because I know love is stronger than you."
And that's what we're up to right now.
Make no mistake.
That's what we're up to as individual souls.
We are in a transition of removing fear
in every place in our life and having to choose love
again and again and again and again.
That's my practice.
I'm still on this journey.
I don't have it all figured out and
I wouldn't listen to anyone who told me
that they had it all figured out.
This is not the Age of the Guru.
This is the Age of Let's All Share.
Let's raise our vibrations and connect together,
because that's what it's going to take
for us all to live whether we want our lives full of love.
It's the great human equalizer.
Yes, and yet we feel that
we'll crumble if we look at the truth.
What have you seen?
Just give me your own example,
because we're speaking about your journey now.
When you had to really look at the truth
after this 15 year kind of charade
you were doing in this relationship,
which a lot of people can relate to because
they may have done 30 years of charade.
You know, just kind of coping, surviving.
What did you find in there,
when you looked at the--
when you did the really deep appraisal?
I found a girl who was desperately afraid to be alone.
Could not be alone and so sold her soul,
was willing really,
to sell her soul to give it up,
to trade the journey that my soul came here to have
in order to recieve love,
which wasn't even unconditional love.
I was receiving conditional love.
For any of those people that are watching right now
that have received conditional love,
you know what a painful experience that is.
I don't know that there's much more
of a painful experience than for someone to give love
and then take it back.
Give love and take it back.
It's this constant--
it's like constant dental work, you know?
(laughing)
Without anesthetic.
Exactly.
That painful.
And that was the emotionally abusive
relationship I was in.
That was the contract we have made with each other.
And so, to look at myself and be like,
"Wow, look what I did to myself."
That was the hardest thing.
I forgave him eight, nine months into the dissolution
of our relationship, of our house and all that.
It took me five years to forgive myself.
Really?
And what was that?
What was the thing you were holding on to there?
I had to admit that I settled for my little dreams
and sold out my big dreams and sold out
what I really wanted.
I knew from the age of fourteen,
the first time I ever came to California,
that I wanted to live in California.
I knew from when I was seven,
I wanted to be a fashion designer.
I gave up both of those dreams for him
and also for my friends,
because I was afraid to be alone.
You could look at that and say,
well, your father died.
Of course, that's part of it.
But it goes way back before that even happened.
It goes back to my initial love crack,
which came from being given to a mother
whose heart was so closed that she didn't
have the capacity to receive me.
So, you chose these parents
so that you could develop this part of yourself
and tell this story today.
Which is beautiful.
And just to claim yourself early on
when you changed your name.
You didn't identify with either one of those.
No, and the truth is the Spirit tried to wake me up
at age 18, tried to wake me up again at 26.
I had moments, you know?
It wasn't until 30,
Saturn came back around and out it went.
(laughing)
So, I'm very grateful.
Saturn return is a good taskmaster.
Saturn return, yes.
It's a good taskmaster.
So now, I can really look back at my former person
and I haven't spoken to him since.
He called a year later, actually,
and asked me back.
And I remember the day.
I was sitting on my couch in Chicago,
phone rings and he asks me to come back
and I remember I was dating my current husband at the time
and I remember looking over at Noah and
I didn't, he was no part of my answer.
This had nothing to do with him.
I just checked in with myself and I said to him,
"No. Thank you for calling but no.
"I really have to choose myself."
And it was like, in that moment,
self-love gates just started--
and it was the first time in our relationship
that I had chosen myself over him.
The love that I wanted.
Because I knew that it came from me.
I'd given away my love power.
I gave away my power to feel love
to another human being.
That's just--
that's self-torture.
That's crazy.
But, it's because as a little girl.
I lost that thread of love and that really is my mission.
If I can leave this planet where we live in a world
where every girl and boy is born in love with themselves
and stays in love with themselves and
that thread of love stays with them,
then my job is done.
If you've done it for a dozen people
that's a huge feat.
But you are doing it for many more than that.
You are helping many more people find
that in themselves.
Going back to the relationship, okay?
Yeah.
So, in the book, you talk about how
you have this one area where you say
this little meditation.
What's this feel like?
And women who have had romantic notions in the past
and most women have had romantic notions.
We all have.
Just stuff in the movies and
we'll watch the hero and the heroine and
the man will look her in the eyes and say
"I love you, you're the only person I want"
and blah blah blah.
It's interesting how you have people look at it,
which I find very true.
How's that make you feel
when you're imagining it for yourself?
Talk about that a little bit.
Because this is supposedly an ideal that
people have looked for throughout the ages.
I'm sure that's why The Bachelor and
The Bachelorette continue to do well in the ratings,
because I don't understand it.
But think of it this way.
We all want to be loved, we all want to be seen.
That's what we really want.
We get that confused with this romantic hoopla
business where it's almost energetically,
I'm going to pretend that you're my gal, here
and I'm just going to be like,
"Oh, I love you so much.
"I'm so happy you're in my life.
"Thank you, thank you, thank you."
And it's almost like feeling like
I'm a blanket that's just goo-ing on you.
There's this energy of romance that
can be very gooey and that's that ideal
that we see in the movies.
There's the flowers and there's the fireplace
and romance is important.
My husband buys me flowers often
and we dance in our living room and
all of that but there's an energy that,
when you see it on the screen,
you can almost feel the people stuffing
each other into their holes.
It's called co-dependency.
You don't want that.
What we want is interdependency.
So, if we're in a relationship and
it's more like,
"You're really beautiful.
"Wow. Thank you for being here on this planet.
"Thank you for being here in my life right now."
That feels much cleaner.
Yeah.
You don't feel the entrapment
and the need in that statement
versus the previous one.
I think that was a really beautiful meditation
you put in there,
because people when you look at it,
and yet, it's still externalized as an ideal.
And what I just did, just for transparency,
is that I just opened myself up,
I dropped my shield,
I got very vulnerable.
Yes. Yes.
I looked at you and you let me in to see you.
Now, this is what I get into later in the book.
Because it was, how is it that we don't get--
all these women out there and men, too,
that want these great relationships,
that want to have this vulnerable, intimate relationship,
why do we not have that?
And where I had to get really honest with myself about,
when I started dating Walking Love,
which is what I call Noah,
because he's like the biggest open heart ever.
He just loves.
He's open.
And my heart was like,
Fort Knox around it and my love quotient
was the size of a pea and so
he's really shown me what it means to let love in.
That's when I realized that I was not comfortable
with intimacy, I didn't even know what intimacy is.
The definition of intimacy is all messed up, too.
The way that we define it in our culture
is intimacy is sex, that they are the same thing.
And they are not the same thing.
In fact, you can be intimate
without taking your clothes off.
We just had an intimate moment.
So, it's our uncomfortability with intimacy
which really, the definition of,
the best way ever described to me is
"in to me see."
When I really got clear that what I wanted in a partner
was someone who could really see me,
that's when I attracted Noah into my life,
and he was the first person,
other than myself,
to really see me.
But only because I finally saw me.
Yeah, and so the resonance was there.
One of the things you also talk about,
prior to getting to that point is
alot of people are really vested in being
the martyr and victim in their relationships
and in their lives with everybody.
This has to stop.
I was there myself.
It was really easy for me to blame my former person.
"You are such a jerk, you broke up with me on
"the way to our engagement party,
"you were mean to me, you never showed up for me."
All the things he didn't do and I could count on my hands
and toes and if I had more digits.
All the conversations I've had with girlfriends
about their boyfriends.
It just happened four days ago with a friend
who is complaining about her ex-husband
who has acted the same way for the last ten years.
He's never shown up.
No surprise, right?
So, I remember I picked up,
this was eight months into my awakening,
I picked up a book by Anthony de Mello,
who wrote a book called
"The Way to Love."
It's one of the best books.
Little book.
If you don't have it, it's such a good book.
He wrote another book called "The Whereness."
I've never read the whole book except for this one time.
I pick it up and I open it and there's a paragraph.
It says,
"You cannot be angry with someone for how they treated you,
"because they were only treating you exactly how
"they've always treated you."
It's your own fault, basically, for thinking that they
were someone other than who they are.
In that moment, it was like the angels sang
and I had this epiphany and it was like,
I had been dating and almost tried
to marry his potential.
I let 10% be enough.
Because 10%, even 20 maybe.
Because what if all I did was love?
Is that enough?
Yeah.
Within us there appears to be this absurd
notion of perfection,
either projecting it on others or ourselves
and that's what this--
we really have to toss that part out.
We're all a work in progress.
Thank goodness.
It would all be quite boring if we weren't.
That's the self-compassion piece.
I find especially with women who are high achievers
that we are not very compassionate with ourselves.
We have inside us what my partner at
school called--
you talked with Amy recently.
And she will wreak havoc in your love life for sure.
That self-criticism that's programmed in.
And also, I know me, when I'm being hard on myself
who do you think I'm also hard on?
Noah.
It's really easy when I'm not feeling great about my body,
I'm not loving my body to look at Noah.
"Why are you having that pizza?"
This is one of the things that really works
in our relationship.
Projecting.
It's that choice of going love or fear.
So, in that moment, because I'm practicing
this fear to love is
oh, I'm afraid that I'm gaining weight.
I'm afraid that I'm not having a good relationship
with food right now.
That's the fear.
If I can look at the fear, then it allows me
to choose love for myself and also for Noah.
So, in the end, it sounds like the basis
for this is really honesty and I don't mean radical honesty
as in the movement "radical honesty,"
I mean really deep internal honesty.
So, if we don't go through that process
as you say in your book,
we're really not in a fit position to be choosing externals.
I also want to offer something to everyone.
I call it an Honesty Hearing.
One of the things that hardest about honesty
is when you're not being honest with yourself.
You don't know--
well, you usually know--
but you don't know how to get honest.
So, I love to give people self-love dares
because I think self-love is a daring act.
One I give to myself,
and actually Noah and I do this about every quarter,
it's called an Honesty Hearing.
H-e-a-r-i-n-g.
Where you get a friend or your partner
and you sit down with each other and
you look at your friend and you just basically say,
"Can you please tell me how I'm not being honest
"to myself in my life?"
And you just be quiet and you listen
to what that person says and you just receive it.
Then you just say "thank you."
You could ask a clarifying question or two,
but you can't defend yourself,
you can't get skeptical in your head.
You just open up your heart and receive it.
Then you do the same for them.
Then, at another time if you want to come back,
or later and say, "I could really use your help."
Then do that.
But it's such a great practice.
I can remember, one of my best friends.
So funny, he--
we all knew he shouldn't get married
and he was the nicest guy, just the nicest guy in the world.
Three weeks before his wedding I sat down with him
and I said,
"Are you happy?"
And he said yes.
He lied, he lied.
Six months later he was divorced.
He lost his house, he lost his car, he lost his job.
Two years of depression from all of this.
If I had had permission to be able to be honest with him,
if he was honest with himself and he was open to
that kind of honesty from any one of our friends,
the pain he would have saved himself
would have been immense.
I think that's the piece, going back to our inner wisdom,
our intuition is also telling us whether you're feeling it
in your belly or, one of my best friends who I write about,
in the book she--
the day she met her ex-husband,
before they ever even went on a date,
her intuition screams in her head,
"Don't go out with him.
"He will ruin your life."
So she dates him, she marries him,
has two children with him.
Ten years later, she's stuck in a city
she doesn't want to live in.
Fighting for her children two years ago
in custody court and you know what happened for her?
Her dream of being a writer?
On hold.
Because she's so distracted with
having to deal with all of this that
she has put her dream on hold for ten years.
Yes and I think everyone listening to this
can certainly relate to the moments where there
are repercussions of not listening to your higher truth,
your internal truth so yes.
Me too.
That's why we need these Honesty Hearings
where there's partnerships with people.
Help me see what I'm not seeing.
Don't you feel that you would
need to choose someone that you have trust in?
You can't do this with just anybody.
Oh, of course.
Like I wouldn't call my mother.
(laughing)
So, you find a partner that you already
have trust in, or a friend and I can,
just when you're talking,
you can feel the fresh air and the release
coming into your own life and also,
the relationship even with that person.
There's a release of something that's occurring there.
Because that repression it takes to keep untruths
contained within, that creates a lot of internal tension.
I can feel what you're talking about the truth in it.
Just let it blow out.
It releases, it releases all that fear.
Fear contracts, love expands so it allows it.
And just to be able to be witnessed by someone else
who you know is not going to judge you,
because you know you're judging yourself.
Like I said, it took me five years to forgive myself
for almost ending up selling cheese for a living
and that's what I would have done,
I would have ended up selling cheese and
I don't even like processed cheese.
(laughter)
It wasn't even good cheese.
That would have been a compromise.
Well, Christine,
anything else before we sign off here?
Any other kind of final take-aways for people
that we haven't touched on?
Well, I would love to offer everyone
the real definition of self-love if I can.
The definition that I have found and written
and invite everyone to close their eyes
because I'm going to close my eyes
to be able to share it here.
Just close your eyes, take a breath,
open your heart and let the real definition
of self-love sink into your mind and your body
and your spirit.
So, self-love is the unconditional love and respect
that you have for yourself that is so solid,
so unwavering that you only choose and allow
situations and relationships,
including the one you have with yourself
that reflect that same unwavering respect
and unconditional love.
On that note, I thank you very much.
That's beautiful
Thank you, Christine.
Thank you so much.
You can delve deeper into this workbook
by going to mebeforewe.com
or you can order through Amazon.
It's a good gift for someone who is drowning
in their relationship.
It's no secret that the most difficult task of being human
is to learn to live in peace and harmony
with our closest partners.
"Choosing Me Before We" offers some practical assistance.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.